Meal preparation for a lot of people starts with a quick Google search for some of their favorite foods. They find two or three recipes they might like and go buy the ingredients at the grocery store. Once they’re home they start cooking one of those recipes, and they take about one to an hour and a half to make a meal with four servings. Great! That’s dinner for four nights. Except, it’s the same dinner all four nights, and the same breakfast and lunch for four days too. However, meal preparation (or meal prep), does not have to be this way. Especially when you can use a tool that can provide you various recipes with items that are already in your pantry or fridge. If you only have certain items for a recipe, then this tool will create a grocery list of the items you need. This is what my capstone project, Meal Preppy, aims to solve. It is a tool that saves time for people who need to meal prep on a tight schedule. The best part is that you don’t have to eat the same meals four days in a row!

Meal Preppy plans to target people between the ages of 20-40 who are busy but need an alternative to fast food. The target audience is also expected to like cooking. Here are some examples of the target audience. A college student who doesn’t have much free time because he studies and likes to hang out with friends, but does not want to spend a lot on fast food or restaurants. A woman starting her career after graduating college trying to stay healthy without having to spend hours looking at recipes that she likes. A man who has two kids, but does not want them to eat unhealthy fast food. These are all people that would benefit from Meal Preppy.

One of the best APIs that I found for my project is called Spoonacular. This API has over 5,000 recipes with loads of nutritional data attached. It also has useful measurement conversions and semantic searching. It is a great base API with room to expand on features. I know this API will help build my app. As for my database schema, I plan to have Users, Grocery Lists, and Recipes as the main models. I know I will most likely need more models, but these are the biggest three for now. I think an issue I might run into while building this app will be loading the proper recipes because there are just so many. I think that I will be using AJAX to make an API call and load the recipes without having to refresh the page. I will need to secure the user’s password so that it is safe in the database.

My app is a lot more than just a CRUD app because it is actually taking data from a user, and providing different solutions to each user based on their input. In this case, it will be different recipes based on what items the user has, as well as automated grocery list building. One stretch goal that I have for this website is to let users add their own recipes so that they can better customize their available foods. I plan to divide this project into two parts. One part will be building the grocery list which will keep track of what the user has in his pantry/fridge and create a custom grocery list based on what is needed for a recipe. Part two will be working to implement recommended recipes from the Spoonacular API to work with the grocery list app. Together they will be Meal Preppy.
